We will now explore
cleaning and tokenization.
I already spoke about this a
little bit in the Course 1,
but this is important to touch
it again for a little bit.
Let's get started. I'll give you
some practical advice on how
to clean a corpus and split
it into words or more accurately
tokens through a process
known as tokenization.
In Course 1, I previously
spoke about data preparation,
cleaning, and tokenization,
but now I'll go into
some more details.
First, you should
consider the words of
your corpus as case insensitive.
For instance, the
word 'The' should be
represented identically
regardless of its case,
for example, whether it
begins with a capital T,
say at the beginning of
the sentence or not.
You can do this by
converting the corpus
to either all lowercase
or all uppercase.
Secondly, you should
handle punctuation.
You could, for instance,
represents all interrupting
punctuation marks
such as full stops,
commas, and question marks as
a single special word
of the vocabulary.
You could ignore non-interrupting
punctuation marks
such as quotation marks.
You could collapse
multi-sign marks such as
triple question marks into
a single mark and so on.
Next, you want to
handle numbers.
For example, if numbers do not
carry an important
meaning in your use case,
you could drop all
of the numbers.
However, numbers may have
significant meaning that is
relevant to your use case.
For instance, 3.14 is
the number for Pi,
90210 is the name of
a television show and
the area code for Beverly
Hills, California.
You can keep these numbers
in your corpora as this.
If your corpora has
many unique numbers
such as many area codes,
you may find that it makes
more sense to replace
all the numbers with a special
token such as <NUMBER>.
This allows the
model to know that
the important thing is
that it's a number instead
of trying to distinguish
between 90210 and other area
codes or phone numbers.
You also need to handle
special characters
such as mathematical symbols,
currency symbols, section
and paragraph signs,
online markup signs, and so on.
It's usually safe to drop them.
Finally, and especially
if you're working on
modern corpus of user inputs
such as tweets or
consumer reviews,
you should handle
special words such
as emojis and hashtags,
#nlp, depending on
if and how you want your model
to confirm meanings to them.
You could, for example,
consider that each emoji or
hashtag should be considered
as an individual word.
I'll give a basic
example in Python to
demonstrate a few of
these recommendations.
The corpus in this example is,
"Who loves word
embeddings in 2020?
I do!!!" With an emoji
punctuation marks and the number.
Here's the code to import and
initialize the libraries.
I'm using the
popular NLTK library
to perform tokenization.
It has a smart
tokenization module named
'Punkt' to handle common
special uses of punctuation.
For example, it knows that
full stops which are periods,
and abbreviations, and
middle names do not
signify the end of a sentence.
I'm also using the
emoji library just
to give you an idea of how
you could handle emojis.
Next comes the actual logic.
First, using
irregular expression,
I'm collapsing all interrupting
punctuation signs and replacing
them with a full stop.
The outcome here is,
"Who loves word
embeddings in 2020?
I do." With the question and
exclamation marks replaced
with a single full stop.
Next, I'm using NLTK word
tokenize function to split
this string into an
array of tokens.
As you can see, the
punctuation signs have been
separated as individual tokens
including the quotation marks.
Finally, using a
list comprehension,
I'm keeping tokens and
converting them to
lowercase if they are one of
the following: alphabetical,
a full stop, so previously in
interrupting punctuation
mark, and emoji.
This gets rid of numbers such as
2020 and unknown
special characters.
This is the resulting array.
You can now use this array
to extract center words and
their surrounding context words
which we'll dive into
in more detail next.
After looking at cleaning
and tokenization,
we are ready to move
on to the next part
of the continuous
bag-of-words model.
In the next video,
we will explore the sliding
Window which you can
think of as a Window going
over the text corpus.
We will talk more about
it. See you there.